
# One command pipeline of C-Phasing
## Pipeline
The `-n 8:4` parameter of the following commands means assembling a tetraploid (**4**) with **8** chromosome basic numbers. If you set `-n 0:0` means partition in both rounds automatically, also support it set to `-n 8:0` or `-n 0:4`.  

!!! note
    `CPhasing` also support the monoploid scaffolding, when you set one group number, e.g. `-n 8`. The `pipeline` will automatically skip the step `1.alleles`, and only run one round partition.

!!! note
    If the user's genome is an allopolyploid with low subgenome similarity, the initial grouping may not be optimal. In such cases, users should adjust the -n parameter based on the ploidy and genome structure:

    - For allotetraploids (2n = 4x = 32), the genome can be treated as a diploid assembly. Use `-n 16` if you want to assemble two subgenomes, set `-n 16:2`, if you want to phase the subgenome, respectively. 
    - For allohexaploids:

        - AAABBB type (2n = 6x = 48): use `-n 16:3`.

        - AABBCC type (2n = 6x = 48): use `-n 24:2`.

### Start from a **pore-c data**:

```bash
cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -pcd sample.fastq.gz -t 10 -n 8:4
```

### Start from multiple **Pore-C data**: 
specify multiple `-pcd` parameters. 
```bash
cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -pcd sample1.fastq.gz -pcd sample2.fastq.gz -t 10 -n 8:4
```  
    
!!! note 
    If you want to run on cluster system and submit them to multiple nodes, you can use `cphasing mapper` and `cphasing-rs porec-merge` to generate the merged `porec.gz` file and input it by `-pct` parameter. Please check the doc:[:octicons-arrow-right-24:Mapper](CLI/mapper.md)

### Start from a **Pore-C table (`.porec.gz`)**:
which is generated by `cphasing mapper`.
```bash
cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -pct sample.porec.gz -t 10 -n 8:4
```

### Start from **HiFi-C data**  
Run `pipeline` or `mapper` with `--mm2-params "-x map-hifi"` parameter. And the output similar to the results of pore-c data.
```bash
cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -pcd hific.fastq.gz --mm2-params "-x map-hifi "  -t 10 -n 8:4
```
!!! note
    The mapping results of HiFi-C is similar to Pore-C, such as output suffix with `porec.gz`, and process it use `porec-merge`, `porec-intersect`, et al.

### Start from **Hi-C data** 
```bash
cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -hic1 Lib_R1.fastq.gz -hic2 Lib_R2.fastq.gz -t 10 -n 8:4
```
!!! note
    - **1** | If you want to run multiple samples, you can use `cphasing hic mapper` and `cphasing-rs pairs-merge` to generate the merged `pairs.pqs` file, and input it by `-prs` parameter.  
    - **2** | If the total length of your input genome is larger than 8 Gb, the `-hic-mapper-k 27 -hic-mapper-w 14` should be specified, to avoid the error of `chromap`. 


### Start from 4DN pairs (`pairs.pqs` or `pairs.gz`) file   

=== "`pairs.pqs`"
    ```bash
    cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -prs sample.pairs.pqs -t 10 -n 8:4
    ```
=== "`pairs.gz`"
    ```bash
    cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -prs sample.pairs.gz -t 10 -n 8:4
    ```

### Skip some steps  
```bash
## skip steps 1.alleles and 2.prepare steps 
cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -pct sample.porec.gz -t 10 -ss 1,2
```
### Perform only specified steps  
```bash
## run 3.hyperpartition 
cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -pct sample.porec.gz -t 10 -s 3
```
### Improve performance
Add the `-hcr` parameter to remove the greedy contacts (several regions contact with the whole genome) to improve the phasing quality. And specified `-p AAGCTT` to normalize the depth calculation to avoid biased of RE's distribution, which `AAGCTT` is the pattern of restriction enzyme. 
```bash
cphasing pipeline -f draft.asm.fasta -pct sample.porec.gz -t 10 -hcr -p AAGCTT
```
    
## Curation by Juicebox  

- generate `.assembly` and `.hic`, depend on [3d-dna](https://github.com/aidenlab/3d-dna)  

```shell
cphasing pairs2mnd sample.pairs.gz -o sample.mnd.txt
cphasing utils agp2assembly groups.agp > groups.assembly
bash ~/software/3d-dna/visualize/run-assembly-visualizer.sh sample.assembly sample.mnd.txt
```
!!! note
    if chimeric corrected, please use `groups.corrected.agp` and generate a new `corrected.pairs.pqs` by `cphasing-rs pairs-break`  

- After curation
```shell
## convert assembly to agp
cphasing utils assembly2agp groups.review.assembly -n 8:4 
## or haploid or a homologous group
cphasing utils assembly2agp groups.review.assembly -n 8
## extract contigs from agp 
cphasing agp2fasta groups.review.agp draft.asm.fasta --contigs > contigs.fasta
## extract chromosome-level fasta from agp
cphasing agp2fasta groups.review.agp draft.asm.fasta > groups.review.asm.fasta
```


## Rename 
Rename and orient chromosome according a monoploid reference (or genome of closely related species).  More details please check [:octicons-arrow-right-24:Rename](CLI/rename.md)
```bash
cphasing rename -r mono.fasta -f draft.asm.fasta -a groups.review.agp -t 20
```
!!! note 
    To reduce the time consumed, we only align the first haplotype (g1) to the monoploid, which the orientation among different haplotypes has already been set to the same in the `scaffolding` step. If not, you can set `—-unphased` to align all haplotypes to the monoploid to adjust the orientation.  

## Heatmap plotting
Please check the doc: [:octicons-arrow-right-24:Plot](CLI/plot.md)